# `DigitalSecretary`

## A personal data management backend for SNHU CS-320

`DigitalSecretary` is a PDM backend developed based on specifications provided
as part of Southern New Hampshire University's CS-320: Software Test Automation
and QA course.  Written in Java, it stores contact, task, and appointment data
using in-memory data structures, and was designed to serve as a backend for a
hypothetical web application.  However, as the course title implies, the program
itself is not especially noteworthy and did not represent the major focus of the
course work.  Rather, this application served as a vehicle for learning testing
techniques in general and the JUnit testing framework in particular.  Software
testing is critical to the software development process, as it provides
mechanisms to ensure that the code being developed functions as intended and
minimizes the risk of errors and defects that can lead failure or vulnerability.
This project focused heavily on unit-level testing, and exemplifies the utility
of such testing in driving and verifying the development of software that meets
users' needs and predefined specifications through thorough examination of the
code's ability to satisfy quantifiable conditions.  However, other types of
testing provide additional lenses into the functionality and security of a
system, from high-level system design reviews that illuminate systemic
complexity that may be a significant source of error to integration tests that
examine the interactions of the various components of a more complex apparatus.

Testing provides more value than just analysis and verification, however.
When properly utilized, tests can help developers quantify and analyze the needs
of their users and other stakeholders.  The process of designing and defining
test structures can give developers a more concrete understanding of the system
that they are designing, facilitating interactions between the development team
and that user base, and the act of quantification itself can facilitate breaking
down the problem into small, easily-approached pieces.  Test development, in
many ways, *is* software development, so long as it is properly used and applied.
